
This archive contains electronic files to accompany "Electric 
Machinery Fundamentals", third edition, by Stephen J. Chapman.  
It contains the m-files used to generate examples in the book, 
plus electronic versions of the magnetization curves used in end-
of-chapter exercises.  It should be unpacked with an unzip 
program that preserves long file names, such as WinZip. 

Many of the problems in Chapters 2, 5, 6, and 9 require that a 
student read one or more values from a magnetization curve.  The 
required curves are given within the textbook, but they are shown 
with relatively few vertical and horizontal lines so that they 
will not appear too cluttered.  Electronic copies of the 
corresponding open-circuit characteristics, short-circuit 
characteristics, and magnetization curves are supplied in this 
archive.  They are supplied in two forms, as MATLAB MAT-files and 
as ASCII text files.  Students can use these files for electronic 
solutions to homework problems.

The ASCII files have the file extent "OCC" for AC machine open-
circuit characteristics (open-circuit terminal voltage versus 
field current), "SCC" for AC machine short-circuit 
characteristics (short-circuit line current versus field 
current), "AIRGAP" for AC machine unsaturated open-circuit 
characteristics (unsaturated open-circuit terminal voltage versus 
field current), and "MAG" for other magnetization curves.  Each 
file contains a header that describes the two quantities 
contained in the file, and where appropriate, the speed of 
rotation at which the data was taken.  

Both ASCII and MAT-files have been supplied for each curve, and a 
student can use either one in his or her solutions.  The ASCII 
versions may also be used with non-MATLAB software. 


